# Scanbot SDK for iOS Developer Guide

## Introduction

Scanbot SDK for iOS is a simple to use high level API, providing a collection of classes and functions
for scanning and processing documents from your mobile device's camera or other image sources like your photo library.

Integrate our [**Ready-To-Use UI Components**](components.html#rtuUiComponents) with only a few lines of code and get the same look and feel as our award winning scanner app Scanbot.
Benefit from a proven user experience, super fast integration time and customizable colors and text to match your brand.
Or dive into our [**Classical UI Components**](components.html#classicalUiComponents) and build your fully customized scanning experience.

Scanbot SDK consists of a bunch of modules, each individually licensable or available in different packages.

Currently the following modules and features are available:
- Document Detection in digital images
- User interface for guided, automatic document scanning using the document detection module
- Image Processing for rotating, cropping, filtering and perspective correction, optimized for the needs of document
scanning
- PDF Creation - merge a collection of processed or unprocessed document images and write them into a PDF document with
one image per page
- Optical Character Recognition - recognize text in document images and create searchable PDF documents with
selectable text
- Payform Recognition, detect and recognize SEPA payforms on images and extract the important data fields via OCR
- Recognition and Data Extraction from German Medical Certificate forms (aka. Disability Certificate or AU-Bescheinigung)
- MRZ Scanner - provides the ability to find and extract Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) content from ID cards, passports and travel documents


## Requirements

### Dev Tools
- Latest stable version of Xcode
- Optionally CocoaPods

The Scanbot SDK can be used in **Objective-C** as well as in **Swift** projects.

### Mobile Devices
- iPhone or iPad with **iOS 11** or higher
- Rear-facing camera with auto-focus
- Supported architectures: `arm64` for physical devices and `x86_64` for simulators

### No Internet Connection Required
**The Scanbot SDK works completely offline.** It does not even contain any networking code.
This can easily be verified by routing all networking traffic coming from the app through a proxy.
All data generated by the Scanbot SDK is only stored on the end user's device and in absolutely no case ever transferred to a server / cloud service controlled by us.
You as the customer will need to take care of uploading the scans / data to your back end, if desired.


## Get in Touch

If you need further information or are interested in licensing Scanbot SDK please reach out to our sales experts via sdk@scanbot.io.
